
Relational Database Service (RDS)
It is a managed DB service for DB that use SQL as query language.
It allows you to create database in cloud that are managed by AWS.
	Postgres
	MySQL
	MariaDB
	Oracle
	Microsoft SQL Server
	Aurora (AWS proprietary db)

RDS vs deploying DB on EC2
RDS is managed service.
	Automated provisioning, OS patching
	Continuous backups and restore to specific timestamp (point in time restore)
	Monitoring dashboards
	Read replicas for improved read performance
	Multi AZ setup for DR (Disaster Recovery)
	Maintenance windows for upgrades
	Scaling capability (vertical & horizontal)
	Storage backed up by EBS
But user cannot SSH into RDS instance.

RDS Backups
Backups are automatically enabled in RDS.
Automated Backups.
	Daily full backup of the database (during maintenance windows)
	Transaction logs are backed up by RDS every 5 minutes
	7 days retention (can be increased to 35 days)
DB snapshots
	Manually triggered by user
	Lifelong retention of backup

RDS read replicas for read scalability

Within AZ, Cross AZ or cross region.
Replication is ASYNC, so reads are eventually consistent.
Replicas can be promoted to their own DB.
Applications must update the connection string to leverage read replicas.
Read replicas are used for SELECT only kind of statements (not INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE).
In AWS, there is network cost when data goes from one AZ to another.

RDS Multi AZ (Disaster Recovery)

SYNC replication.
One DNS name-automatic app failover to standby.
Increase availability.
Failover in case of loss of AZ, loss of network, instance or storage failure.
No manual intervention required for switching to standby instance.
Not used for scaling.

RDS Security - Encryption

At rest encryption
	Possiblility to encrypt the master & read replicas with AWS KMS.
	Encryption has to be defined at launch time.
	If master is not encrypted, read replicas cannot be encrypted.
In-flight encryption
	SSL certificates to encrypt data to RDS in flight.
	Provide SSL options with trust certificate when connecting to database.

RDS Security - Network and IAM

Network security
	RDS databases are usually deployed within a private subnet, not in a public.
	RDS security works by leveraging secuirty groups (same as EC2) by controlling which IP/security group can communicate with RDS.
Access Management
	IAM policies help control who can manage AWS RDS (using RDS API).
	Traditional username and password can be used to login into database.
	IAM-based authentication can alos be used to login into RDS (MySQL/postgreSQL)
