Load balancers:
	Spread load across mulitple downstream instances
	Expose a single point of access (DNS) to your application
	Seamlessly handle failures of downstream instances
	Do regular health checks on the instances
	Provide SSL termination (HTTPS)
	Enforce stickiness with cookies
	High availability across zones
	Separate public traffic from private traffic

AWS has 3 kinds of managed Load Balancers:
Classic Load Balancer(CLB): HTTP, HTTPS, TCP
Application Load Balancer(ALB): HTTP, HTTPS, WebSocket
Network Load Balancer(NLB): TCP, TLS, UDP

Troubleshooting:
	4XX errors are client induced errors
	5XX errors are application induced errors
	Load Balancer Errors 503 mean at capacity or no registered target


Application Load Balancer

Load Balancing to multiple HTTP applications across machines.
Load Balanching to mulitple applications on same machine.
Routing tables to different target groups:
	Routing based on path in URL
	Routing based on hostname in URL
	Routing based on Query string, headers

ALB are great fit for micro services & container based application.
Has port mapping feature to redirect to a dynamice port in ECS.
Fixed hostname.
Application servers don't see IP of client directly.


Network Load Balancer

Handles millions of requests per second.
Less latency than ALB.
NLB has 1 static IP per zone and supports ELastic IP.
NLBs are used for extreme performance.
Not free.

Load Balancer Stickiness

Same client is always redirected to same instance behind LB.
Works in CLB adn ALB.
'Cookie' is used for stickiness with customizable expiration time.
Help in keeping user's session data safe.
Stickiness can bring imbalance to LB.

Cross Load Balancing

Each load balancer instance distributes evenly across all registered instances in all zones.
CLB:
	Disabled by default
	No charges
ALB:
	Always on
	No charges
NLB:
	Disabled by default
	Charges incurred

SSL/TLS

An SSL certificate allows traffic between clients and load balancers to be encrypted in transit.
SSL refers to Secure Socket Layer used for encryption.
TLS refers to Transport Layer Security (newer to SSL).
SSL certificates have expiration time.

SNI

SNI solves the problem of loading mulitple SSL certificates onto one web server.
It is newer and required client to indicate hostname of target server during initial handshake.
The server then returns with the correct certificate or loads the default.
CLB:
	Support only one SSL certificate
	Must use multiple CLB for multiple hostname with multiple SSL certificates
ALB:
	Supports multiple listeners with multiple certificates
	Uses SNI for this
NLB:
	Supports multiple listeners with multiple certificates
	Uses SNI for this