Elastic Block Store(EBS) volume

It is a network drive and not a physical drive.
	It uses network to communicate with the instance causing some latency
	It can be detached from one EC2 instance and attached to another one easily.
It is locked to an availability zone.
	To move a volume across AZ, you need to snapshot it
Has provisioned capacity.
	You get billed for the provisioned capacity even if you actually use less
	It is possible to increase the capacity over time

EBS volume types

GP2 (general purpose;cheap)
	Recommended for most workloads
	System boot volumes
	Virtual desktops
	Low Latency interactive apps
	Development and test environments
	Has burst
	3 IOPS/GiB, minimum 100 IOPS, burst to 3000 IOPS, max 16000 IOPS
	1 GiB-16 GiB, +1TB = +3000 IOPS

IO1 (provisioned IOPS;expensive)
	Critical business applications that require sustained IOPS performance or more than GP2 limit
	Large database workloads such as:
		MongoDB, Cassandra, Microsoft SQL server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle
	Min 100 IOPS, Max 64000 IOS (Nitro) or 32000(other)
	4 GiB-16 GiB, Size of volume and IOPS are independent

ST1 (throughput optimized HDD)
	Streaming workloads requiring consistent fast throughput at a low price
	Big data, Data warehouses, Log processing
	Apache Kafka
	Has burst
	Cannot be a boot volume
	500 GiB-16 GiB, 500 MiB/s throughput

SC1 (cold HDD)
	Throughput-oriented storage for large volumes of data that is infrequently accessed
	Scenarios where the lowest storage cost is important
	Cannot be a boot volume
	Has burst
	Basically a cheaper ST1
	250 GiB-16 GiB, 250 MiB/s throughput

EBS snapshots

	Incremental - only backup changed blocks
	EBS backups use IO so shouldn't be run while application has lot of traffic
	Snapshots will be stored in S3 (but you can't see them)
	Not necessary to detach volume to do snapshot but is recommended
	Max 100,000 snapshots
	Can copy snapshots across AZ or region
	Can make Image AMI from snapshot
	EBS volumes  restored snapshots need to be pre-warmed (using fio or dd command to read entire volume)
	Snapshots can be automated using Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager

EBS Encryption

When an encrypted EBS volume is created, the following happens:
	Data at rest is encrypted inside the volume
	All data in flight moving between the instance and volume is encrypted
	All snapshots are encrypted
	All volumes created from the snapshot are also encrypted.
Encryption and decryption happens transparently.
Encryption has minimal impact on latency.
Copying an unencrypted snashot allows encryption.
Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted.

Encrypting an unencrypted EBS volume:
	Create an EBS snapshot of volume
	Encrypt the EBS snapshot (using copy)
	Create new EBS volume from snapshot (volume will also be encrypted)
	Attach the encrypted volume to the original instance

Instance Store

Physical disk attached to physical server where EC2 is.
Very high IOPS (because it is physical).
Block Storage (like EBS).
Cannot increase in size.
Risk of data loss if hardware fails.

EBS RAID

RAID 0 (increase performance)
	Combining two or more volumes and getting total disk space and I/O
	If one disk fails, all data is lost (logical volume fails)
	An application needing lot of IOPS but no fault tolerance
	A database already having buil-in replication

RAID 1 (increase fault tolerance)
	Mirroring a volume to another
	If one disk fails, logical volume still works
	Data has to be sent to two EBS volumes at same time (2x network)
	Application that needs volume fault tolerance
		Application that needs service disks